author|quote|source
Chuck Palahniuk|I see in the fight club the strongest and smartest men who've ever lived. I see all this potential and I see squandering. God damn it, an entire generation pumping gas, waiting tables, slaves with white collars, advertising has us chasing cars and clothes, working jobs we hate so we can buy shit we don't need. We're the middle children of the history man, no purpose or place, we have no Great war, no Great depression, our great war is a spiritual war, our great depression is our lives, we've been all raised by television to believe that one day we'd all be millionaires and movie gods and rock stars, but we won't and we're slowly learning that fact. and we're very very pissed off.|Fight Club
Samuel Beckett|I can't go on, I'll go on.|I Can't Go On, I'll Go On: A Samuel Beckett Reader
Charles Bukowski|I was drawn to all the wrong things: I liked to drink, I was lazy, I didn't have a god, politics, ideas, ideals. I was settled into nothingness; a kind of non-being, and I accepted it. I didn't make for an interesting person. I didn't want to be interesting, it was too hard. What I really wanted was only a soft, hazy space to live in, and to be left alone. On the other hand, when I got drunk I screamed, went crazy, got all out of hand. One kind of behavior didn't fit the other. I didn't care.|Women
Chuck Palahniuk|If you could be either God’s worst enemy or nothing, which would you choose?|Fight Club
A.A. Milne|"There must be somebody there, because somebody must have said ""Nobody."|Winnie-the-Pooh
Brent Weeks|Do you know what punishments I've endured for my crimes, my sins? None. I am proof of the absurdity of men's most treasured abstractions. A just universe wouldn't tolerate my existence.|The Way of Shadows
Fyodor Dostoyevsky|Lack of originality, everywhere, all over the world, from time immemorial, has always been considered the foremost quality and the recommendation of the active, efficient and practical man.|The Idiot
Joseph Heller|Man was matter, that was Snowden's secret. Drop him out a window, and he'll fall. Set fire to him and he'll burn. Bury him and he'll rot, like other kinds of garbage. The spirit gone, man is garbage. That was Snowden's secret. Ripeness was all.|Catch-22
Alan Moore|Why do we argue? Life's so fragile, a successful virus clinging to a speck of mud, suspended in endless nothing.|Watchmen
Cormac McCarthy|The point is there ain't no point.|No Country for Old Men
John Fowles|I think we are just insects, we live a bit and then die and that’s the lot. There’s no mercy in things. There’s not even a Great Beyond. There’s nothing.|The Collector
Eugène Ionesco|That's how we stay young these days: murder and suicide.|Man With Bags
Viktor E. Frankl|But today’s society is characterized by achievement orientation, and consequently it adores people who are successful and happy and, in particular, it adores the young. It virtually ignores the value of all those who are otherwise, and in so doing blurs the decisive difference between being valuable in the sense of dignity and being valuable in the sense of usefulness. If one is not cognizant of this difference and holds that an individual’s value stems only from his present usefulness, then, believe me, one owes it only to personal inconsistency not to plead for euthanasia along the lines of Hitler’s program, that is to say, ‘mercy’ killing of all those who have lost their social usefulness, be it because of old age, incurable illness, mental deterioration, or whatever handicap they may suffer. Confounding the dignity of man with mere usefulness arises from conceptual confusion that in turn may be traced back to the contemporary nihilism transmitted on many an academic campus and many an analytical couch.|Man's Search for Meaning
Bret Easton Ellis|Disappear Here.The syringe fills with blood.You're a beautiful boy and that's all that matters.Wonder if he's for sale.People are afraid to merge. To merge.|Less Than Zero
Albert Camus|If we believe in nothing, if nothing has any meaning and if we can affirm no values whatsoever, then everything is possible and nothing has any importance.|The Rebel: An Essay on Man in Revolt
Cornel West|Nihilism is a natural consequence of a culture (or civilization) ruled and regulated by categories that mask manipulation, mastery and domination of peoples and nature.|The Cornel West Reader
Flannery O'Connor|If you live today, you breath in nihilism ... it's the gas you breathe. If I hadn't had the Church to fight it with or to tell me the necessity of fighting it, I would be the stinkingest logical positivist you ever saw right now.|
Guy de Maupassant|I told myself: 'I am surrounded by unknown things.' I imagined man without ears, suspecting the existence of sound as we suspect so many hidden mysteries, man noting acoustic phenomena whose nature and provenance he cannot determine. And I grew afraid of everything around me – afraid of the air, afraid of the night. From the moment we can know almost nothing, and from the moment that everything is limitless, what remains? Does emptiness actually not exist? What does exist in this apparent emptiness?|Complete Works
Alan Moore|I sat on the bed. I looked at the Rorschach blot. I tried to make it look like a spreading tree, shadows pooled beneath it, but it didn't. It looked more like a dead cat I once found, the fat, glistening grubs writhing blindly, squirming over each other, frantically tunneling away from the light. But even that isn't the real horror. The horror is this: in the end, it is simply a picture of empty meaningless blackness.|Watchmen
Friedrich Nietzsche|"Virtue is under certain circumstances merely an honorable form of stupidity: who could be ill-disposed toward it on that account? And this kind of virtue has not been outlived even today. A kind of sturdy peasant simplicity, which, however, is possible in all classes and can be encountered only with respect and a smile, believes even today that everything is in good hands, namely in the ""hands of God""; and when it maintains this proportion with the same modest certainty as it would that two and two make four, we others certainly refrain from contradicting. Why disturb THIS pure foolishness? Why darken it with our worries about man, people, goal, future? And even if we wanted to do it, we could not. They project their own honorable stupidity and goodness into the heart of things (the old God, deus myops, still lives among them!); we others — we read something else into the heart of things: our own enigmatic nature, our contradictions, our deeper, more painful, more mistrustful wisdom."|The Will to Power
Gorgias|Nothing exists; even if something exists, nothing can be known about it; and even if something can be known about it, knowledge about it can't be communicated to others.|
Friedrich Nietzsche|It is a self-deception of philosophers and moralists to imagine that they escape decadence by opposing it. That is beyond their will; and, however little they acknowledge it, one later discovers that they were among the most powerful promoters of decadence.|The Will to Power
Seraphim Rose|Atheism, true 'existential' atheism burning with hatred of a seemingly unjust or unmerciful God, is a spiritual state; it is a real attempt to grapple with the true God.… Nietzsche, in calling himself Antichrist, proved thereby his intense hunger for Christ.|Nihilism: The Root of the Revolution of the Modern Age
Fernando Pessoa|Sit still with me in the shade of these green trees, which have no weightier thought than the withering of their leaves when autumn arrives, or the stretching of their many stiff fingers into the cold sky of the passing winter. Sit still with me and meditate on how useless effort is, how alien the will, and on how our very meditation is no more useful than effort, and no more our own than the will. Meditate too on how a life that wants nothing can have no weight in the flux of things, but a life the wants everything can likewise have no weight in the flux of things, since it cannot obtain everything, and to obtain less than everything is not worthy of souls that seek the truth.|The Education of the Stoic
Fyodor Dostoyevsky|I must add... my gratitude to you for the attention with which you have listened to me, for, from my numerous observations, our Liberals are never capable of letting anyone else have a conviction of his own without at once meeting their opponent with abuse or even something worse.|The Idiot
Emil Cioran|There is no other world. Nor even this one. What, then, is there? The inner smile provoked in us by the patent nonexistence of both.|
Werner Herzog|Jeder für sich und Gott gegen alle|
Ashim Shanker|His hatred for all was so intense that it should extinguish the very love from which it was conceived. And thus, he ceased to feel. There was nothing further in which to believe that made the prospect of feeling worthwhile. Daily he woke up and cast downtrodden eyes upon the sea and he would say to himself with a hint of regret at his hitherto lack of indifference, 'All a dim illusion, was it? Surely it was foolish of me to think any of this had meaning.' He would then spend hours staring at the sky, wondering how best to pass the time if everything—even the sky itself— were for naught. He arrived at the conclusion that there was no best way to pass the time. The only way to deal with the illusion of time was to endure it, knowing full well, all the while, that one was truly enduring nothing at all. Unfortunately for him, this nihilistic resolution to dispassion didn’t suit him very well and he soon became extremely bored. Faced now with the choice between further boredom and further suffering, he impatiently chose the latter, sailing another few weeks along the coast , and then inland, before finally dropping anchor off the shores of the fishing village of Yami.|Only the Deplorable
Albert Camus|Aujourd'hui, maman est morte. Ou peut-être hier, je ne sais pas. J'ai reçu un télégramme de l'asile : « Mère décédée. Enterrement demain. Sentiments distingués. » Cela ne veut rien dire. C'était peut-être hier.|The Stranger
Cormac McCarthy|The priest therefore saw what the anchorite could not. That God needs no witness. Neither to himself nor against. The truth is rather that if there were no God then there could be no witness for there could be no identity to the world but only each man's opinion of it. The priest saw that there is no man who is elect because there is no man who is not. To God every man is a heretic.|
Chuck Palahniuk|I see in the fight club the strongest and smartest men who've ever lived. I see all this potential and I see squandering. God damn it, an entire generation pumping gas, waiting tables, slaves with white collars, advertising has us chasing cars and clothes, working jobs we hate so we can buy shit we don't need. We're the middle children of the history man, no purpose or place, we have no Great war, no Great depression, our great war is a spiritual war, our great depression is our lives, we've been all raised by television to believe that one day we'd all be millionaires and movie gods and rock stars, but we won't and we're slowly learning that fact. and we're very very pissed off.|Fight Club
Samuel Beckett|I can't go on, I'll go on.|I Can't Go On, I'll Go On: A Samuel Beckett Reader
Charles Bukowski|I was drawn to all the wrong things: I liked to drink, I was lazy, I didn't have a god, politics, ideas, ideals. I was settled into nothingness; a kind of non-being, and I accepted it. I didn't make for an interesting person. I didn't want to be interesting, it was too hard. What I really wanted was only a soft, hazy space to live in, and to be left alone. On the other hand, when I got drunk I screamed, went crazy, got all out of hand. One kind of behavior didn't fit the other. I didn't care.|Women
Chuck Palahniuk|If you could be either God’s worst enemy or nothing, which would you choose?|Fight Club
A.A. Milne|"There must be somebody there, because somebody must have said ""Nobody."|Winnie-the-Pooh
Brent Weeks|Do you know what punishments I've endured for my crimes, my sins? None. I am proof of the absurdity of men's most treasured abstractions. A just universe wouldn't tolerate my existence.|The Way of Shadows
Fyodor Dostoyevsky|Lack of originality, everywhere, all over the world, from time immemorial, has always been considered the foremost quality and the recommendation of the active, efficient and practical man.|The Idiot
Joseph Heller|Man was matter, that was Snowden's secret. Drop him out a window, and he'll fall. Set fire to him and he'll burn. Bury him and he'll rot, like other kinds of garbage. The spirit gone, man is garbage. That was Snowden's secret. Ripeness was all.|Catch-22
Alan Moore|Why do we argue? Life's so fragile, a successful virus clinging to a speck of mud, suspended in endless nothing.|Watchmen
Cormac McCarthy|The point is there ain't no point.|No Country for Old Men
John Fowles|I think we are just insects, we live a bit and then die and that’s the lot. There’s no mercy in things. There’s not even a Great Beyond. There’s nothing.|The Collector
Eugène Ionesco|That's how we stay young these days: murder and suicide.|Man With Bags
Viktor E. Frankl|But today’s society is characterized by achievement orientation, and consequently it adores people who are successful and happy and, in particular, it adores the young. It virtually ignores the value of all those who are otherwise, and in so doing blurs the decisive difference between being valuable in the sense of dignity and being valuable in the sense of usefulness. If one is not cognizant of this difference and holds that an individual’s value stems only from his present usefulness, then, believe me, one owes it only to personal inconsistency not to plead for euthanasia along the lines of Hitler’s program, that is to say, ‘mercy’ killing of all those who have lost their social usefulness, be it because of old age, incurable illness, mental deterioration, or whatever handicap they may suffer. Confounding the dignity of man with mere usefulness arises from conceptual confusion that in turn may be traced back to the contemporary nihilism transmitted on many an academic campus and many an analytical couch.|Man's Search for Meaning
Bret Easton Ellis|Disappear Here.The syringe fills with blood.You're a beautiful boy and that's all that matters.Wonder if he's for sale.People are afraid to merge. To merge.|Less Than Zero
Albert Camus|If we believe in nothing, if nothing has any meaning and if we can affirm no values whatsoever, then everything is possible and nothing has any importance.|The Rebel: An Essay on Man in Revolt
Cornel West|Nihilism is a natural consequence of a culture (or civilization) ruled and regulated by categories that mask manipulation, mastery and domination of peoples and nature.|The Cornel West Reader
Flannery O'Connor|If you live today, you breath in nihilism ... it's the gas you breathe. If I hadn't had the Church to fight it with or to tell me the necessity of fighting it, I would be the stinkingest logical positivist you ever saw right now.|
Guy de Maupassant|I told myself: 'I am surrounded by unknown things.' I imagined man without ears, suspecting the existence of sound as we suspect so many hidden mysteries, man noting acoustic phenomena whose nature and provenance he cannot determine. And I grew afraid of everything around me – afraid of the air, afraid of the night. From the moment we can know almost nothing, and from the moment that everything is limitless, what remains? Does emptiness actually not exist? What does exist in this apparent emptiness?|Complete Works
Alan Moore|I sat on the bed. I looked at the Rorschach blot. I tried to make it look like a spreading tree, shadows pooled beneath it, but it didn't. It looked more like a dead cat I once found, the fat, glistening grubs writhing blindly, squirming over each other, frantically tunneling away from the light. But even that isn't the real horror. The horror is this: in the end, it is simply a picture of empty meaningless blackness.|Watchmen
Friedrich Nietzsche|"Virtue is under certain circumstances merely an honorable form of stupidity: who could be ill-disposed toward it on that account? And this kind of virtue has not been outlived even today. A kind of sturdy peasant simplicity, which, however, is possible in all classes and can be encountered only with respect and a smile, believes even today that everything is in good hands, namely in the ""hands of God""; and when it maintains this proportion with the same modest certainty as it would that two and two make four, we others certainly refrain from contradicting. Why disturb THIS pure foolishness? Why darken it with our worries about man, people, goal, future? And even if we wanted to do it, we could not. They project their own honorable stupidity and goodness into the heart of things (the old God, deus myops, still lives among them!); we others — we read something else into the heart of things: our own enigmatic nature, our contradictions, our deeper, more painful, more mistrustful wisdom."|The Will to Power
Gorgias|Nothing exists; even if something exists, nothing can be known about it; and even if something can be known about it, knowledge about it can't be communicated to others.|
Friedrich Nietzsche|It is a self-deception of philosophers and moralists to imagine that they escape decadence by opposing it. That is beyond their will; and, however little they acknowledge it, one later discovers that they were among the most powerful promoters of decadence.|The Will to Power
Seraphim Rose|Atheism, true 'existential' atheism burning with hatred of a seemingly unjust or unmerciful God, is a spiritual state; it is a real attempt to grapple with the true God.… Nietzsche, in calling himself Antichrist, proved thereby his intense hunger for Christ.|Nihilism: The Root of the Revolution of the Modern Age
Fernando Pessoa|Sit still with me in the shade of these green trees, which have no weightier thought than the withering of their leaves when autumn arrives, or the stretching of their many stiff fingers into the cold sky of the passing winter. Sit still with me and meditate on how useless effort is, how alien the will, and on how our very meditation is no more useful than effort, and no more our own than the will. Meditate too on how a life that wants nothing can have no weight in the flux of things, but a life the wants everything can likewise have no weight in the flux of things, since it cannot obtain everything, and to obtain less than everything is not worthy of souls that seek the truth.|The Education of the Stoic
Fyodor Dostoyevsky|I must add... my gratitude to you for the attention with which you have listened to me, for, from my numerous observations, our Liberals are never capable of letting anyone else have a conviction of his own without at once meeting their opponent with abuse or even something worse.|The Idiot
Emil Cioran|There is no other world. Nor even this one. What, then, is there? The inner smile provoked in us by the patent nonexistence of both.|
Werner Herzog|Jeder für sich und Gott gegen alle|
Ashim Shanker|His hatred for all was so intense that it should extinguish the very love from which it was conceived. And thus, he ceased to feel. There was nothing further in which to believe that made the prospect of feeling worthwhile. Daily he woke up and cast downtrodden eyes upon the sea and he would say to himself with a hint of regret at his hitherto lack of indifference, 'All a dim illusion, was it? Surely it was foolish of me to think any of this had meaning.' He would then spend hours staring at the sky, wondering how best to pass the time if everything—even the sky itself— were for naught. He arrived at the conclusion that there was no best way to pass the time. The only way to deal with the illusion of time was to endure it, knowing full well, all the while, that one was truly enduring nothing at all. Unfortunately for him, this nihilistic resolution to dispassion didn’t suit him very well and he soon became extremely bored. Faced now with the choice between further boredom and further suffering, he impatiently chose the latter, sailing another few weeks along the coast , and then inland, before finally dropping anchor off the shores of the fishing village of Yami.|Only the Deplorable
Albert Camus|Aujourd'hui, maman est morte. Ou peut-être hier, je ne sais pas. J'ai reçu un télégramme de l'asile : « Mère décédée. Enterrement demain. Sentiments distingués. » Cela ne veut rien dire. C'était peut-être hier.|The Stranger
Cormac McCarthy|The priest therefore saw what the anchorite could not. That God needs no witness. Neither to himself nor against. The truth is rather that if there were no God then there could be no witness for there could be no identity to the world but only each man's opinion of it. The priest saw that there is no man who is elect because there is no man who is not. To God every man is a heretic.|
Flannery O'Connor|"Where you come from is gone, where you thought you were going to never was there, and where you are is no good unless you can get away from it. Where is there a place for you to be? No place.Nothing outside you can give you any place,"" he said. ""You needn't look at the sky because it's not going to open up and show no place behind it. You needn't to search for any hole in the ground to look through into somewhere else. You can't go neither forwards nor backwards into your daddy's time nor your children's if you have them. In yourself right now is all the place you've got. If there was any Fall, look there, if there was any Redemption, look there, and if you expect any Judgment, look there, because they all three will have to be in your time and your body and where in your time and your body can they be?"|Wise Blood
John Marmysz|Though nihilism has been relentlessly criticized for overemphasizing the dark side of human experience, it might be equally true that this overemphasis represents a needed counterbalance to shallow optimism and arrogant confidence in human power. Nihilism reminds us that we are not gods, and that despite all of the accomplishments and wonders of civilization, humans cannot alter the fact that they possess only a finite amount of mastery and control over their own destinies.|Laughing at Nothing: Humor as a Response to Nihilism
Fyodor Dostoyevsky|Why did you come in to-night with your heads in the air? 'Make way, we are coming! Give us every right and don't you dare breathe a word before us. Pay us every sort of respect, such as no one's ever heard of, and we shall treat you worse than the lowest lackey!' They strive for justice, they stand on their rights, and yet they've slandered him like infidels in their article. We demand, we don't ask, and you will get no gratitude from us, because you are acting for the satisfaction of your own conscience! Queer sort of reasoning!... He has not borrowed money from you, he doesn't owe you anything, so what are you reckoning on, if not his gratitude? So how can you repudiate it? Lunatics! They regard society as savage and inhuman, because it cries shame on the seduced girl; but if you think society inhuman, you must think that the girl suffers from the censure of society, and if she does, how is it you expose her to society in the newspapers and expect her not to suffer? Lunatics! Vain creatures! They don't believe in God, they don't believe in Christ! Why, you are so eaten up with pride and vanity that you'll end by eating up one another, that's what I prophesy. Isn't that topsy-turvydom, isn't it infamy?|The Idiot
Christopher Hitchens|Like the Nazis, the cadres of jihad have a death wish that sets the seal on their nihilism. The goal of a world run by an oligarchy in possession of Teutonic genes, who may kill or enslave other 'races' according to need, is not more unrealizable than the idea that a single state, let alone the globe itself, could be governed according to the dictates of an allegedly holy book. This mad scheme begins by denying itself the talents (and the rights) of half the population, views with superstitious horror the charging of interest, and invokes the right of Muslims to subject nonbelievers to special taxes and confiscations. Not even Afghanistan or Somalia, scenes of the furthest advances yet made by pro-caliphate forces, could be governed for long in this way without setting new standards for beggary and decline.|The Enemy
Allen Wheelis|Certainty is not to be had. But as we learn this we become not more moral but more resigned. We become nihilists.|The Moralist
Bret Easton Ellis|He was simply someone who floated through our lives and didn't seem to care how flatly he perceived everyone or that he'd shared our secret failures with the world, showcasing the youthful indifference, the gleaming nihilism, glamorizing the horror of it all.|Imperial Bedrooms
John Marmysz|Despite its successes, in the end, philosophical thinking always falls short of its real goal. It involves both the wonder of aspiring toward the Truth and the distress of falling short of that Truth. In this way, philosophy can be characterized as wondrous distress.|The Path of Philosophy: Truth, Wonder, and Distress
Seraphim Rose|"More profoundly, Nihilist ""simplification"" may be seen in the universal prestige today accorded the lowest order of knowledge, the scientific, as well as the simplistic ideas of men like Marx, Freud, and Darwin, which underlie virtually the whole of contemporary thought and life.We say ""life,"" for it is important to see that the Nihilist history of our century has not been something imposed from without or above, or at least has not been predominantly this; it has rather presupposed, and drawn its nourishment from, a Nihilist soil that has long been preparing in the hearts of the people. It is precisely from the Nihilism of the commonplace, from the everyday Nihilism revealed in the life and thought and aspiration of the people, that all the terrible events of our century have sprung. The world-view of Hitler is very instructive in this regard, for in him the most extreme and monstrous Nihilism rested upon the foundation of a quite unexceptional and even typical Realism. He shared the common faith in ""science,"" ""progress,"" and ""enlightenment"" (though not, of course, in ""democracy""), together with a practical materialism that scorned all theology, metaphysics, and any thought or action concerned with any other world than the ""here and now,"" priding himself on the fact that he had ""the gift of reducing all problems to their simplest foundations."" He had a crude worship of efficiency and utility that freely tolerated ""birth control"", laughed at the institution of marriage as a mere legalization of a sexual impulse that should be ""free"", welcomed sterilization of the unfit, despised ""unproductive elements"" such as monks, saw nothing in the cremation of the dead but a ""practical"" question and did not even hesitate to put the ashes, or the skin and fat, of the dead to ""productive use."" He possessed the quasi-anarchist distrust of sacred and venerable institutions, in particular the Church with its ""superstitions"" and all its ""outmoded"" laws and ceremonies. He had a naive trust in the ""natural mom, the ""healthy animal"" who scorns the Christian virtues--virginity in particular--that impede the ""natural functioning"" of the body. He took a simple-minded delight in modern conveniences and machines, and especially in the automobile and the sense of speed and ""freedom"" it affords.There is very little of this crude Weltanschauung that is not shared, to some degree, by the multitudes today, especially among the young, who feel themselves ""enlightened"" and ""liberated,"" very little that is not typically ""modern."|
Haruki Murakami|Pero, en este mundo, nada hay tan cruel como la desolación de no desear nada.|The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle
Flannery O'Connor|"That's the trouble with you preachers,"" he said. ""You've all got too good to believe in anything,"" and he drove off with a look of disgust and righteousness."|Wise Blood
Juli Zeh|Alle Wege führen zur Erkenntnis der Nichtigkeit aller Dinge, aber keiner führt zurück.|Spieltrieb
Seraphim Rose|What, more realistically, is this “mutation,” the “new man”? He is the rootless man, discontinuous with a past that Nihilism has destroyed, the raw material of every demagogue’s dream; the “free-thinker” and skeptic, closed only to the truth but “open” to each new intellectual fashion because he himself has no intellectual foundation; the “seeker” after some “new revelation,” ready to believe anything new because true faith has been annihilated in him; the planner and experimenter, worshipping “fact” because he has abandoned truth, seeing the world as a vast laboratory in which he is free to determine what is “possible”; the autonomous man, pretending to the humility of only asking his “rights,” yet full of the pride that expects everything to be given him in a world where nothing is authoritatively forbidden; the man of the moment, without conscience or values and thus at the mercy of the strongest “stimulus”; the “rebel,” hating all restraint and authority because he himself is his own and only god; the “mass man,” this new barbarian, thoroughly “reduced” and “simplified” and capable of only the most elementary ideas, yet scornful of anyone who presumes to point out the higher things or the real complexity of life.|Nihilism: The Root of the Revolution of the Modern Age
William Gaddis|Then, what is sacrelige [sic]? If it is nothing more than a rebellion against dogma, it is eventually as meaningless as the dogma it defies, and they are both become hounds ranting in the high grass, never see the boar in the thicket. Only a religious person can perpetrate sacrelige: and if its blasphemy reaches the heart of the question; if it investigates deeply enough to unfold, not the pattern, but the materials of the pattern, and the necessity of a pattern; if it questions so deeply that the doubt it arouses is frightening and cannot be dismissed; then it has done its true sacreligious [sic] work, in the service of its adversary: the only service that nihilism can ever perform.(unused 1949 prefatory note to The Recognitions) |
Andrew M. Ryan|I’ve always been suspicious of the assumption that great intelligence would be an unqualified benefit— that the madness that so often accompanies it can be cavalierly dismissed. So I asked the question: Suppose there were an entire subpopulation of extreme geniuses, well beyond anything that would occur naturally. What would that really look like?|The Labbitt Halsey Protocol
Ştefan Bolea|I feel as if I had been born dead underAmerican bombardment.|Gothic
Ernst Jünger|Dalin must have whiffed the anarch in me, a man with no ties to state or society. Still, he was unable to sense an autonomy that puts up with these forces as objective facts but without recognizing them. What he lacked was a grounding in history.Opposition is collaboration; this was something from which Dalin, without realizing it, could not stay free. Basically, he damaged order less than he confirmed it. The emergence of the anarchic nihilist is like a goad that convinces society of its unity.The anarch, in contrast, not only recognizes society a priori as imperfect, he actually acknowledges it with that limitation. He is more or less repulsed by state and society, yet there are times and places in which the invisible harmony shimmers through the visible harmony. This is obviously chiefly in the work of art. In that case, one serves joyfully.But the anarchic nihilist thinks the exact opposite. The Temple of Artemis, to cite an example, would inspire him to commit arson. The anarch, however, would have no qualms about entering the temple in order to meditate and to participate with an offering. This is possible in any temple worthy of the name.|Eumeswil
J.R.R. Tolkien|In account after account of exorcisms the demonic voices will propound nihilism of one variety or another.|The Return of the King
Saşa Pană|Ai pus nitroglicerină sub perna lui dumnezeu ...|Prozopoeme
Jean-Paul Sartre|Every existing thing is born without reason, prolongs itself out of weakness and dies by chance.|
frére dupont|Death appears as the harsh victory of the law of our ancestors of the dimension of our becoming. It is a fact that, as productivity increases, each succeeding generation becomes smaller in stature. The defeat of our fathers is revisited upon us as the limits of our world. Yes, structure is human, it is the monumentalization of congealed sweat, sweat squeezed from old exploitation and represented as nature, the world we inhabit, the objective ground. We do not, in our insect-like comings and going, make the immediate world in which we live, we do not make a contribution, on the contrary we are set in motion by it; a generation will pass before what we have done, as an exploited class, will seep through as an effect of objectivity. (Our wealth is laid down in heaven.) The structure of the world has been built by the dead, they were paid in wages, and when the wages were spent and they were in the ground, what they had made continued to exist, these cities, roads and factories are their calcified bones. They had nothing but their wages to show for what they had done, who they were and what they did has been cancelled out. But what they made has continued into our present, their burial and decay is our present. This is the definition of class hatred. We are no closer now to rest, to freedom, to communism than they were, their sacrifice has brought us nothing, what they did counted for nothing, we have inherited nothing, but they did produce value, they did make the world in which we now live, the world that now oppresses us is constructed from the wealth they made, wealth that was taken from them as soon as they were paid a wage, taken and owned by someone else, owned and used to define the nature of class domination. We too must work, and the value we produce leaks away from us, from each only a trickle but in all a sea of it and that, for the next generation, will thicken into wealth for others to own and as a congealed structure it will be used to frame new enterprises in different directions. The violence of what they produced becomes the structure that dominates our existence. Our lives begin amidst the desecration of our ancestors, millions of people who went to their graves as failures, and forever denied experiences of a full human existence, their simply being canceled out; as our parents die, we can say truly that their lives were for nothing, that the black earth that is thrown down onto them blacks out our sky.|
Christopher Hitchens|It was sometimes feebly argued, as the political and military war against this enemy ran into difficulties, that it was 'a war without end.' I never saw the point of this plaintive objection. The war against superstition and the totalitarian mentality is an endless war. In protean forms, it is fought and refought in every country and every generation. In bin Ladenism we confront again the awful combination of the highly authoritarian personality with the chaotically nihilist and anarchic one. Temporary victories can be registered against this, but not permanent ones. As Bertold Brecht's character says over the corpse of the terrible Arturo Ui, the bitch that bore him is always in heat. But it is in this struggle that we develop the muscles and sinews that enable us to defend civilization, and the moral courage to name it as something worth fighting for.|The Enemy
Ernst Jünger|Bruno withdrew from the field of history more resolutely than Vigo; that is why I prefer the former’s retrospect but the latter’s prospect. As an anarch, I am determined to go along with nothing, ultimately take nothing seriously – at least not nihilistically, but rather as a border guard in no man’s land, who sharpens his eyes and ears between the tides.|Eumeswil
Graham Greene|She got up and he saw the skin of her thigh for a moment above the artificial silk, and a prick of sexual desire disturbed him like a sickness. That was what happened to a man in the end: the stuffy room, the wakeful children, the Saturday night movements from the other bed. Was there no escape––anywhere––for anyone? It was worth murdering a world.|Brighton Rock
Arthur Balfour|Nothing matters very much and most things don't matter at all.|
Michel Houellebecq|Maybe I should have gone into politics. If you were a political activist, election season brought moments of intensity, whichever side you were on, and meanwhile here I was inarguably withering away,|
Maggie Shipstead|People spent their lives searching for something beyond the simple friction of skin on skin, but there was nothing. The void between two people could never be closed, and in trying to close it, they would only learn everything that was to be despised in the other.|Seating Arrangements
Liu Cixin|From time to time, I would gaze up at the stars after a night shift and think that they looked like a glowing desert, and I myself was a poor child abandoned in the desert... I thought that life was truly an accident among accidents in the universe. The universe was an empty palace, and humankind the only ant in the entire palace. This kind of thinking infused the second half of my life with a conflicted mentality: Sometimes I thought life was precious, and everything was so important; but other times I thought humans were insignificant, and nothing was worthwhile. Anyway, my life passed day after day accompanied by this strange feeling, and before I knew it, I was old...|The Three-Body Problem
Noah  Wareness|Don't ever trust a punk who lived.|
Peter Singer|To say that life is meaningless is to express an attitude, not to state a fact|Writings on an Ethical Life
Marty Rubin|One explains things until things have no meaning anymore.|
Bret Easton Ellis|"Nothing. Nothing makes me happy. I like nothing,"" I tell her."|Less Than Zero
László Krasznahorkai|Irimiás: God is not made manifest in language, you dope. He's not manifest in anything. He doesn't exist... God was a mistake. I've long understood there is zero difference between me and a bug, or a bug and a river, or a river and a voice shouting above it. There's no sense or meaning in anything. It's nothing but a network of dependency under enormous fluctuating pressures. It's only our imaginations, not our senses, that continually confront us with failure and the false belief that we can raise ourselves by our own bootstraps from the miserable pulp of delay. There's no escaping that, stupid.|Satantango
Elena Ferrante|Maybe we really are made of the same clay, maybe we really are condemned, blameless, to the same, identical mediocrity.|The Story of a New Name
Yukio Mishima|The perfectly ordinary girl and the great philosopher are alike: for both, the smallest triviality can become the vision that wipes out the world.|The Decay of the Angel
Edmund Husserl|In our vital need ... science has nothing to say to us. It excludes in principle precisely the question which man, given over in our unhappy times to the most portentous upheavals, finds the most burning: questions about the meaning or meaninglessness of this whole human existence. Do not these questions, universal and necessary for all men, demand universal reflections and answers based on rational insight? In the final analysis they concern man as a free, self-determining being in his behaviour toward the human and extrahuman surrounding world and free in regard to his capacities for rationally shaping himself himself and his surrounding world.|Crisis of European Sciences and Transcendental Phenomenology
Michel Houellebecq|You have to take an interest in something in life, I told myself. I wondered what could interest me, after I was finished with love. I could take a course in wine tasting, maybe , or start collecting model aeroplanes|
John Marmysz|I do not teach students anything. I learn along with them.|
Ivan Turgenev|Nature's not a temple, but a workshop, and man's the workman in it.|Fathers and Sons
John Marmysz|There must be no final truths; only burning questions.|The Nihilist: A Philosophical Novel
Jean-François Lyotard|Are we, intellectual sirs, not actively or passively 'producing' more and more words, more books, more articles, ceaselessly refilling the pot-boiler of speech, gorging ourselves on it rather, seizing books and 'experiences', to metamorphose them as quickly as possible into other words, plugging us in here, being plugged in there, just like Mina on her blue squared oilcloth, extending the market and the trade in words of course, but also multiplying the chances of jouissance, scraping up intensities wherever possible, and never being sufficiently dead, for we too are required to go from forty to the hundred a day, and we will never play the whore enough, we will never be dead enough|Libidinal Economy
Ivan Turgenev|We act by virtue of what we recognize as beneficial. At the present time, negation is the most beneficial of all—and we deny.|Fathers and Sons
Ivan Turgenev|In his heart he was highly delighted with his friend's suggestion, but he thought it a duty to conceal his feeling. He was not a nihilist for nothing!|
J.G. Ballard|Kill a politician and you're tied to the motive that made you pull the trigger.|Millennium People
John Marmysz|There is no such thing as progress or regress. The world is not getting better and better, nor is it getting worse and worse. It is simply moving along into the future, reiterating in different configurations the patterns that have already occurred. We can’t help but play a role in this unfolding drama, but it is a mistake to think that what we do makes any difference to the grand scheme of things.|The Nihilist: A Philosophical Novel
Sigitas Parulskis|I am only a shadow, sitting by the gates of Hades beside that arrogant Ulyssestelling stories of my grievances to my father’s indifferent ghostwho, from time to time, gusts an ash wind at meand whispersson, for the nonsense you talk pour me even a drop of lifethis shit hole of eternitysuffocates terribly|
Kevin Focke|I think the suicide rate is so high among writers because we force ourselves to stand still, take an outsider’s perspective, and realise how quickly a life passes by, and how futile we are. The exhilarating upside is that at a moment’s glance all your worries fade away, and you can work on making the most of it.|
Arthur K. Flam|It's still strange.|
Jean Baudrillard|There is no more hope for meaning. And without a doubt this is a good thing: meaning is mortal. Appearances, they, are immortal, invulnerable to the nihilism. This is where seduction begins.|Simulacra and Simulation
Oli Anderson|I decided to give up meaningless sex, but then I remembered that everything is meaningless.|
Jean Baudrillard|What do Chile, Biafra, the boat people, Bologna, or Poland matter? All of that comes to be annihilated on the television screen. We are in the era of events without consequences (and of theories without consequences).|Simulacra and Simulation
Friedrich Nietzsche|I praise, I do not reproach, [nihilism's] arrival. I believe it is one of the greatest crises, a moment of the deepest self-reflection of humanity. Whether man recovers from it, whether he becomes master of this crisis, is a question of his strength.|Complete Works of Friedrich Nietzsche
I.S Turgheniev|Eu înclin spre negativism în virtutea senzaţiilor.Simt plăcerea de a nega,pentru că aşa mi-e alcătuit creierul,basta!|
Fyodor Dostoyevsky|"....I don't want harmony. From love for humanity I don't want it. I would rather be left with the unavenged suffering. I would rather remain with my unavenged suffering and unsatisfied indignation, even if I were wrong. Besides, too high a price is asked for harmony; it's beyond our means to pay so much to enter on it. And so I hasten to give back my entrance ticket, and if I am an honest man I am bound to give it back as soon as possible. And that I am doing. It's not God that I don't accept, Alyosha, only I most respectfully return him the ticket.""-Ivan Karamazov"|
Friedrich Nietzsche|I praise, I do not reproach, [nihilism's] arrival. I believe it is one of the greatest crises, a moment of the deepest self-reflection of humanity. Whether man recovers from it, whether he becomes master of this crisis, is a question of his strength|
Severo Sarduy|El universo -recitaba el enano como si estuviera en una habitación hexagonal y blanca, acariciando un pelícano atragantado con un salmón coleante-, es obra de un dios apresurado y torpe. Su pretensión lo llevó a concebir cosas sublimes, rosadas y con pisos, como un cake helado de La Gran Vía; también le salieron -añadía, señalando con un índice oscilante, de falanges hinchadas como canutos, a la Tremenda, con una musaraña repugnante, como si le pegaran a la cara una papaya abierta- mamarrachos como éste: un pedazo de carne con marvelline en los ojos. Nuestro propósito -concluía exaltado-: el caos total. Terminar con esta jarana de mal gusto que todo rememora, desde las auroras boreales hasta la tortilla tahitiana.|Maitreya
Ray Bradbury|Užitak je bio paliti. Osobit je užitak bio gledati kako stvari nestaju, kako crne i mijenjaju se. S bakrenom štrcaljkom u rukama, tim velikim udavom koji svoj otrovni petrolej pljuje u svijet, krv mu je udarala u glavi, a ruke su mu bile ruke nekakvog čudesnog dirigenta koji izvodi sve simfonije plamsanja i paljenja kako bi satro ostatke i pougljenjele ostatke povijesti. Sa simboličnim šljemom s brojkom 451 na ravnodušnoj glavi i očima punim narančastog ognja pri pomisli na ono što slijedi, kvrcnuo je upaljač i kuća je poskočila od pohlepne vatre koja je večernje nebo obojila crvenilom, žutilom i crnilom. Koraknuo je u roj krijesnica. Poželio je više od svega da, kao u staroj šali, u ovu peć gurne sljez na štapu dok na verandi i travnjaku poput golubova uzlepetalih krila umiru knjige i u iskričavim kovitlacima uzlijeću i nestaju s vjetrom potamnjelim od paljenja.|Fahrenheit 451
Marty Rubin|If you believe in nothing else, believe in your freedom.|
Giovanni Papini|Life to be bearable must be lived intensely. Through it a continuous stream of emotion passes. Though that emotion is ever changing as flowing water changes, it at least bears us along on a current that gives the illusion of continuity and permanence. But analyze life, tear its trappings off, lay it bare with thought, with logic, with philosophy, and its emptiness is revealed as a bottomless pit; its nothingness frankly confesses to nothingness, and Despair comes to perch in the soul.|
Johnny Rich|In the chain of events, it is arbitrary to be sentimental about the passing of any one link.|The Human Script
Mokokoma Mokhonoana|The continuation of man’s life is more attributable to his fear of death than it is to his desire to live. As a matter of fact, in countless cases, it is attributable to only the former.|
Jean-Paul Sartre|Thus it amounts to the same thing whether one gets drunk alone or is a leader of nations.|Being and Nothingness
Aldous Huxley|"But if one doesn't really exist, one wonders why..."" she hesitated.""Why one makes such a fuss about things,"" Anthony suggested. ""All that howling and hurrahing and gnashing of teeth. About the adventures of a self that isn't really a self—just the result of a lot of accidents. And of course,"" he went on, ""once you start wondering, you see at once that there is no reason for making such a fuss. And then you don't make a fuss—that is, if you're sensible. Like me,"" he added, smiling."|Eyeless in Gaza
Andrew Coyne|A society that believes in nothing can offer no argument even against death. A culture that has lost its faith in life cannot comprehend why it should be endured.|
Steven Erikson|If all we seek is an escape, what does that say about the world we live in. We are desperate with our dreams. What - oh, what - does that say?|The Crippled God
Robert C. Solomon|Nietzsche says very clearly all the way through his career that if you want to define human nature the first thing you must say is that human beings insist on value--we see the world through value colored eyes. We do not know how to look at things neutrally, value-free. So, it's not a question of giving up all values, it's simply a question of which values.|Will to Power: The Philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche
Marty Rubin|Better to find one thing to live for than a thousand things to be against.|
Fuminori Nakamura|Happiness is a fortress.|Evil and the Mask
Dean Cavanagh|Nihilism, there's really nothing to it.|
Jean-Paul Sartre|...freedom only gives you something to be sorry for.|
Mitchell Heisman|I might be a nihilist except that I don’t believe in anything.|
Dean Cavanagh|The born again nihilist has nothing to blame for their fall|
Friedrich Nietzsche|It is intoxicating joy for the sufferer to look away from his suffering and to forget himself.|Thus Spoke Zarathustra
Emil Cioran|من دون الإله كل شيء ليل, و معه حتى النور يصبح عديم الجدوى. التصوف اقتحام المطلق للتاريخ. إنه مثل الموسيقى, إكليل كل ثقافة, و مبررهـا الأخير|لو كان آدم سعيداً
Yukio Mishima|The philosophy that prepares a revolution and the sentiment that underpins the philosophy have, in every case the two pillars of nihilism and mysticism.|
Yevgeny Zamyatin|I must note here that even among us the process of the hardening, the crystallization of life has evidently not been completed; there are still some steps to be ascended before we reach the ideal. The ideal (clearly) is the condition where nothing happens any more.|We
Yevgeny Zamyatin|I must note here that even among us the process of the hardening, the crystallization of life has evidently not yet been completed; there are still some steps to be ascended before we reach the ideal. The ideal (clearly) is the condition where nothing happens ant more.|We
Arnold Geulincx|Ubi nihil vales, ibi nihil velis|
Anton Chekhov|MASHA. Just think, I am already beginning to forget her face. People will not remember us either. They will forget.VERSHININ. Yes. They will forget. That is our fate, you can't do anything about it. The things which to us seem serious, significant, very important, - the time will come - they will be forgotten or they will seem of no consequence.|The Three Sisters
Arnold Geulincx|Ubi nihil vales, ibi nihil velis: where you are worth nothing, there you should want nothing|
John Marmysz|In all of its operations, cinema ceaselessly strives, and fails, to make present a world hopelessly beyond grasp. For this reason cinema is, in its very nature, a nihilistic medium.|
William Barrett|The deflation, or flattening out, of values in Modern art does not necessarily indicate an ethical nihilism. Quite the contrary; in opening our eyes to the rejected elements of existence, art may lead us to a more complete and less artificial celebration of the world.|Irrational Man: A Study in Existential Philosophy
Anton Chekhov|But then there's loneliness. However you might philosophise about it, loneliness is a terrible thing, my dear fellow… Although in reality, of course, it's absolutely of no importance!|The Three Sisters
Jaś Kapela|Gdyby wszyscy myśleli tak samo jak ja, nikt nigdy nie wyszedłby ze swojego pokoju.I byłby to dobry świat. W którym nie byłoby wojen, gwałtów ani dzieci nienarodzonych.Prawdopodobnie nic by nie było.I to byłoby dobre.Dobro to nieobecność zła.Albo jakoś tak.|Janusz Hrystus
Sreten Ugričić|Reagovala je na bol, na saznanje da nema roditelja, da nema dece, da ni ovaj čovek koji tvrdi da joj je otac nema dece, da ni on nema roditelja, da na svetu nema bliskosti, nema prepoznavanja.|Neznanom junaku
Anne Carson|But when justice is done the world drops away.|Autobiography of Red
Andrew Deaville|Do as you will, for there is nothing to be done.|
Matthew Selwyn|We can’t handle absence anymore, anything is better than the blankness; the quiet of nothingness. People fight to put images of love and hate – both equally nauseating – between themselves and the blank space that surrounds us. It’s the only escape, and yet we feel the pressure of the blankness pressing in against us, forcing the violent display ever closer, forcing us to demand images brighter, more graphic until they scorch our senses badly enough that we no longer feel the void and the images become our reality. But it’s ok. Most people don’t need to fear absence anymore – we’re blinded, permanently. There’s no need to seek out the light show that protects us either; inoculation precedes the sickness now. Sedation isn’t an option, it’s a shared reality. Most people don’t see the beauty of the system, how perfect our salvation is.|****: The Anatomy of Melancholy
Shane Weller|Ubi nihil vales, ibi nihil velis: where you are worth nothing, there you should want nothing|A Taste For The Negative: Beckett And Nihilism
Emil Cioran|Верный способ не сойти с ума в иных обстоятельствах: вспомнить о нереальности всего окружающего и не расставаться с этим...|
Virginie Despentes|What's disappointing is that it's just another mold, you leave one cliche and end up right back in another. Not really that subversive or out of control.|Baise-Moi
Sarah Kane|There's not a drug on earth can make life meaningful|4.48 Psychosis
Anthon St. Maarten|We have created a manic world nauseous with the pursuit of material wealth. Many also bear their cross of imagined deprivation, while their fellow human beings remain paralyzed by real poverty. We drown in the thick sweetness of our sensual excess, and our shameless opulence, while our discontent souls suffocate in the arid wasteland of spiritual deprivation.|
Blaise Cendrars|you make me laugh, with your metaphysical anguish, its just that you're scared silly, frightened of life, of men of action, of action itself, of lack of order. But everything is disorder, dear boy. Vegetable, mineral and animal, alldisorder, and so is the multitude of human races, the life of man, thought,history, wars, inventions, business and the arts, and all theories, passionsand systems. Its always been that way. Why are you trying to make something outof it? And what will you make? what are you looking for? There is no Truth.There's only action, action obeying a million different impulses, ephemeralaction, action subjected to every possible and imaginable contingency andcontradiction, Life. Life is crime, theft, jealousy, hunger, lies, disgust,stupidity, sickness, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, piles of corpses. what can you do about it, my poor friend?|
Ivan Turgenev|I look up to heaven only when I want to sneeze.|Fathers and Sons
Blaise Cendrars|what are you looking for? There is no Truth. There's only action, action obeying a million different impulses, ephemeral action, action subjected to every possible and imaginable contingency and contradiction, Life. Life is crime, theft, jealousy, hunger, lies, disgust,stupidity, sickness, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, piles of corpses. what can you do about it, my poor friend?|Moravagine
Karen Armstrong|The new atheists show a disturbing lack of understanding of or concern about the complexity and ambiguity of modern experience, and their polemic entirely fails to mention the concern for justice and compassion that, despite their undeniable failings, has been espoused by all three of the monotheisms. Religious fundamentalists also develop an exagerrated view of their enemy as the epitome of evil. This tendency makes critique of the new atheists too easy. They never discuss the work of such theologians as Bultmann or Tillich, who offer a very different view of religion and are closer to mainstream tradition than any fundamentalist. Unlike Feurerbach, Marx and Freud, the new atheists are not theologically literate. As one of their critics has remarked, in any military strategy it is essential to confront the enemy at its strongest point; failure to do so means that their polemic remains shallow and lacks intellectual depth. It is also morally and intellectually conservative. Unlike Feurerback, Marx, Ingersoll or Mill, these new Atheists show little concern about the poverty, injustice and humiliation that has inspired many of the atrocities they deplore; they show no yearning for a better world. Nor, like Nietzsche , Sartre or Camus, do they compel their readers to face up to the pointlessness and futility that ensue when people lack the resources to create a sense of meaning. They do not appear to consider the effect of such nihilism on people who do not have privileged lives and absorbing work.|The Case for God
Vjay Prozak|As a nihilist, I recognize that meaning does not exist. If we exterminate ourselves as a species, and vaporize our beautiful world, the universe will not cry with us (a condition called the pathetic fallacy). No gods will intervene. It will just happen and then — and then the universe will go on. We will not be remembered. We will simply not be.|
Woody Allen|One day about a month ago, I really hit bottom. You know, I just felt that in a Godless universe, I didn't want to go on living. Now I happen to own this rifle, which I loaded, believe it or not, and pressed it to my forehead. And I remember thinking, at the time, I'm gonna kill myself. Then I thought, what if I'm wrong? What if there is a God? I mean, after all, nobody really knows that. But then I thought, no, you know, maybe is not good enough. I want certainty or nothing. And I remember very clearly, the clock was ticking, and I was sitting there frozen with the gun to my head, debating whether to shoot.[The gun fires accidentally, shattering a mirror] All of a sudden, the gun went off. I had been so tense my finger had squeezed the trigger inadvertently. But I was perspiring so much the gun had slid off my forehead and missed me. And suddenly neighbors were, were pounding on the door, and, and I don't know, the whole scene was just pandemonium. And, uh, you know, I-I-I ran to the door, I-I didn't know what to say. You know, I was-I was embarrassed and confused and my-my-my mind was r-r-racing a mile a minute. And I-I just knew one thing.I-I-I had to get out of that house, I had to just get out in the fresh air and-and clear my head. And I remember very clearly, I walked the streets. I walked and I walked. I-I didn't know what was going through my mind. It all seemed so violent and un-unreal to me. And I wandered for a long time on the Upper West Side, you know, and-and it must have been hours. You know, my-my feet hurt, my head was-was pounding, and-and I had to sit down. I went into a movie house. I-I didn't know what was playing or anything.I just, I just needed a moment to gather my thoughts and, and be logical and put the world back into rational perspective. And I went upstairs to the balcony, and I sat down, and, you know, the movie was a-a-a film that I'd seen many times in my life since I was a kid, and-and I always, uh, loved it. And, you know, I'm-I'm watching these people up on the screen and I started getting hooked on the film, you know. And I started to feel, how can you even think of killing yourself. I mean isn't it so stupid? I mean, l-look at all the people up there on the screen. You know, they're real funny, and-and what if the worst is true.What if there's no God, and you only go around once and that's it. Well, you know, don't you want to be part of the experience? You know, what the hell, it's-it's not all a drag. And I'm thinkin' to myself, geez, I should stop ruining my life - searching for answers I'm never gonna get, and just enjoy it while it lasts. And, you know, after, who knows? I mean, you know, maybe there is something. Nobody really knows. I know, I know maybe is a very slim reed to hang your whole life on, but that's the best we have. And then, I started to sit back, and I actually began to enjoy myself.|
Hermann Hesse|Era linistitor sa stiu ca seara nu voi mai trai.|Gertrude
Thomas Ligotti|All of the myths of mankind are nothing but show business,' the other man said to me during our initial meeting. 'Everything that we supposedly live by and supposedly die by — whether it's religious scriptures or makeshift slogans — all of it is show business. The rise and fall of empires — show business. Science, philosophy, all of the disciplines under the sun, and even the sun itself, as well as all those other clumps of matter wobbling about in the blackness up there —' he said to me, pointing out the window beside the coffee-shop booth in which we sat, 'show business, show business, show business.' 'And what about dreams?' I asked, thinking I might have hit upon an exception to his dogmatic view, or at least one that he would accept as such. 'You mean the dreams of the sort we are having at this moment or the ones we have when we're fortunate enough to sleep?|Teatro Grottesco
Friedrich Nietzsche|Nihilism is…not only the belief that everything deserves to perish; but one actually puts one shoulder to the plough; one destroys.|
Jeffrey Fischer|humanity suffers terribly from the demons it has created over lengths of time. we learn from nothing that we do. we create religions, heritage, race, traditions, then they all in turn become our stumbling blocks from becoming one. we suffer from the creations of our own inability to interpret history. the only thing we have succeded on is seperation.we are not that different from one another as we think we are. but we are too corrupted to break our deconstruction.|
Renzo Novatore|Mine is an enthusiastic and dionysian pessimism, like a flame that sets my vital exuberance ablaze, that mocks at any theoretical, scientific or moral prison.|
Fyodor Dostoyevsky|"Why, the whole world of knowledge is not worth that child's prayer to 'dear, kind God'! I say nothing of the sufferings of grown-up people, they have eaten the apple, damn them, and the devil take them all! But these little ones!The Brothers KaramazovIvan to Alyosha, on the suffering and torture of children, ""Book V - Pro and Contra, Chapter 4 - Rebellion."|
Renzo Novatore|My motto is: walk expropriating and igniting, always leaving behind me howls of moral offenses and smoking trunks of old things.|
Renzo Novatore|...only the one who knows and practices the iconoclastic fury of destruction can possess the joy born of freedom, of that unique freedom fertilized by sorrow. I rise up against the reality of the outer world for the triumph of the reality of my inner world. I reject society for the triumph of the I. I reject the stability of every rule, every custom, every morality, for the affirmation of every willful instinct, all free emotionality, every passion and every fantasy. I mock at every duty and every right so I can sing free will. I scorn the future to suffer and enjoy my good and my bad in the present. I despise humanity because it is not my humanity. I hate tyrants and I detest slaves. I don't want and I don't grant solidarity, because I am convinced that it is a new chain, and because I believe with Ibsen that the one who is most alone is the strongest one. This is my Nihilism.|
Mort W. Lumsden|"Don't most astrophysicists now predict some ""end of the line"" - an end to it all? Not just the death of things, but the annihilation of everything. Some great contraction, or collapse. Or, perhaps, some vast dissipation into eternal emptiness. Maybe it's all swallowed up by an immense black hole, which then swallows itself. But, whatever the case, their extinction is inevitable and absolute. So complete as to erase any and all evidence that this reality - this existence - ever took place. So complete that, perhaps, for all intents and purposes, it never really did. (attrib: F.L. Vanderson)"|Citations: A Brief Anthology
Ştefan Bolea|O furie de-a mea v-ar îngropa pe toţi în balele nimicului, un singur suflu de-al meu v-ar doborî în esenţa vidului, un pumn de-al meu v-ar descompune în mii şi mii de particule de lavă…|Caietul Roxanei şi alte Jurnale
Hunter S. Thompson|This place is like the Army: the shark ethic prevails--eat the wounded. In a closed society where everybody's guilty, the only crime is getting caught. In a world of thieves, the only final sin is stupidity.|Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas
Anthony Marais|Somethingism is better than nihilism.|Delusionism
Anonymous|ما هِيَ إِلَّا حَيَاتُنَا الدُّنْيَا نَمُوتُ وَنَحْيَا وَمَا يُهْلِكُنَا إِلَّا الدَّهْرُ .|The Quran / القرآن الكريم
Nathaniel Hawthorne|Possibly, some cynic, at once merry and bitter, had desired to signify, in this pantomimic scene, that we mortals, whatever our business or amusement--however serious, however trifling--all dance to one identical tune, and, in spite of our ridiculous activity, bring nothing finally to pass.|The House of the Seven Gables
Ştefan Bolea|Non-semnificaţia iubirilor mele & nonşalanţa cu care au fost ele aruncate la gunoi mi-au ciopârţit în primul rând sufletul, mi-au provocat acea stupefacţie care mi-a umplut nebunia cu vitriol.|Caietul Roxanei şi alte Jurnale
Emil Cioran|Só é saudável em nós aquilo pelo que não somos especificamente nós mesmos: são nossas aversões que nos individualizam; nossas tristezas que nos concedem um nome; nossas perdas que nos fazem possuidores de nosso eu. Só somos nós mesmos pela soma de nossos fracassos.|Breviário de Decomposição
Roland Jaccard|Lucrul despre care nu poți vorbi, trebuie trecut sub tăcere. Cu siguranță!Dar, în ultimă instanță, i-am putea replica lui Wittgenstein, pornind de la propria sa obiecție, că nu contează decât ceea ce poate fi spus, din moment ce discursurile nu sunt decât jocuri la care noi,ceilalți, trișori impenitenți, ne dedăm, având singura grijă de a-l înșela pe celălalt, când nu este vorba de a ne înșela pe noi înșine. Odată risipite vrăjile limbajului, nu mai rămâne decât tăcerea.Dar nu a fost niciodată nimeni atât de puternic încât să se închidă în această tăcere care este mormântul lui Dumnezeu. Să vrei să trăiești fără a bolborosi vreo rugăciune, fără a plănui vreo crimă, fără vreun delir în care să te închizi și să nu-ți vină să-ți zbori creierii. Nu ne sprijinim decât pe visurile care ne traversează.|Tentația nihilistă
Valerii A. Kuvakin|"Atheism ... goes back to the Ancient Greek (a — a negative prefix, theos — god), evidencing the antiquity of the outlook of those who saw no presence of God (or gods) in their everyday lives, or who even denied the very existence of God (or gods). There are different types of atheism, but atheism in one form or another has existed in every civilization.[T]he concept ""atheist"" partially coincides with such notions as ""skeptic,"" ""agnostic,"" and ""rationalist"" and it borders with such notions as ""anticlerical,"" ""God fighter"" (theomachist), and ""God abuser"" (blasphemer).It is wrong to identify an atheist as one who denies God, though this is what opponents of atheism usually claim. If such people exist, it would probably be more correct to call them the ""verbal"" murderers of God, for the prefix a- means denying as elimination. ... I would like to stress that the prefix a- does not necessarily mean rejection. It can mean ""absence of."" For example, ""apathy"" means ""absence of passion."" Thus, the concept ""atheist"" does not necessarily mean nihilism."|
Fernando Pessoa|E questo l'errore centraledell'immaginazione letteraria: essa suppone che gli altri sono noi e che devono sentirsi come noi. (Feltrinelli, Economica Universale Feltrinelli; p.43)|The Book of Disquiet
Karl Marlantes|But just below the grim tranquility he had learned to display, he cursed with boiling intensity the ambitious men who used him and his troops to further their careers. He cursed the air wing for not trying to get any choppers in through the clouds. He cursed the diplomats arguing about round and square tables. He cursed the South Vietnamese making money off the black market. He cursed the people back home gorging themselves in front of their televisions. Then he cursed God. Then there was no one else to blame and he cursed himself for thinking God would give a shit.|Matterhorn
Fyodor Dostoyevsky|But the conquest of fear was what fascinated them. The continual ecstasy of vanquishing and the consciousness that no one could vanquish them was what attracted them.|
Ştefan Bolea|Voi deveni ceea ce tot timpul am sperat să devin… Nimic.|Caietul Roxanei şi alte Jurnale
